#Automated watering

Our automated watering system consists of two major parts:
	one which is responsible for collecting data about the soil and one which brings off the watering.
The device that joins the two parts is the Arduino Nano. 


##Measuring moisture

To measure the soil moisture we use the following devices:
    moisture sensor, Arduino Nano, a 5V battery and cables to connect them.
To make the system work we use an Arduino code (the Arduino language is based on C/C++) which controls the other parts of the circuit.
Our sensor measures the electrical conductivity of the soil and sends an analog signal to the Arduino Board.
The sensor we use provides analog values that can vary between 0 and 1024.
If we put the sensor in the air, we get a 0 as it's conductivity is very low in ordinary circumstances (i.e 10 to the power of -15).
If we make a shortcut with a cable between the two pins of the sensor, we get the maximum value as the cable has negligible resistance.
To calibrate the maximum humidity we put the sensor in water and at room temperature, this value is about 900.
If we want to calibrate the minimal humidity in our soil we need to dry it and measure the conductivity of the dry material.
Due to time limitation we consider the minimal value to be 0.
According to this data we can calculate the relative moisture percentage of soil and meet the plants water needs.


##Watering system

Our watering system contains a waterpump, a transistor (NPN), a diode, a battery and everything is connected to our Arduino Board.
We use the transistor as a switch and the diode as a safety mechanism.
Based on the data that our sensor provides, the Arduino Nano decides (thanks to our code) wether the plant needs water.
According to that it can close the circuit of the water pump for a certain amount of time (by using our transistor) and make the pump push water to the soil. 
If it happens, we wait for a short time so the water can spread and then the whole process starts again.
If it does not happen, then the measurement continues.
