INTRODUCTION

The goal of the project is to establish an automated system that would water the plant according to its needs. This idea could solve watering the
filelds of various plants on an industrial size. Throughout the fields, the water is not spred the same. That effects the global productivity and
quality of the plants used in the industry. Multiple devices like automated water pumps could measure the moisture of sertain parts of the fields
and controll the amount of water in those parts. That way we improve the efficiency of the industrial production.
Our prototype is currently aplicable to personal needs. The main advantages are the facts that it doesn't use much electricity and that the whole
product is very compact.

The whole product has three main parts: the small computer with the moisture sensor, the water pump, and the server for self-hosting.
The moisture sensor measures conductivity of the soil. The more water there is, the higher the connductivity. Althou, the problem may occurre if there
is a high amount of metal ions, from the soil itself or accumulated over time from water. It represents a possible problem becouse it can effect the
conductivity of the soil and couse a higher measurment. It sends the analog data to the small computer capable of prossesing the data and storing a
small software in it. More precisely, we use Arduino Nano as "small, complete, and breadboard-friendly board" (1 - footnote) for storing and executing
our software. The code is written in C/C++ like language. Arduino processes the data from the sensor, determines if the value is above or under the
defined limit and enables the pump to water the plant  if the value is low. The limiting value for the pump is defined according to the type of the
plant and the type of the soil becouse they effect the conductivity of the soil. At the same time Arduino sends the data from the moisture sensor to
the Raspberry Pi via radio frequency. Raspberry Pi is a small computer similar to the Arduino but more powerful. It has an Ethernet port for
connection to the internet. We use it as server which stores our data and displays it like a graph in a form of a web page. We use web server so we
can monitor the system from the distance and easily see the current state of the plant according to the graph.
The pump acquires the most when it comes to electricity. Arduino and the pump together are powered by an external battery via USB port.
The Raspberry Pi has it's own power source.



Footnotes:

1. Arduino Nano (https://www.arduino.cc/en/Main/ArduinoBoardNano)
